So the challenge that I mentioned in the
last video was to modify the program, our
guessing game, using a while loop to
allow the player to continue guessing.
The important change is the use of a
while loop. As long as the guess doesn't
equal the answer, the loop will continue
requesting a new guess and checking
the answer.  So I'm going to start by
wrapping all the code, including the
input line, in a while loop. I'm basically,
going to come up to the guess equals int
input line. Press over here, then I press
ENTER there and I'm going to type while
guess is not equal to answer : and
then I'm going to indent all this code,
right down to the end of the file. So I
can just select it all and press tab,
and it all gets indented, as you can see.
And actually, what I'll do is, in terms of
the print, let's change that as well.
I'm going to cut that out and I'm
going to put that on line six. We don't
need to re-show that every time around
the loop. Alright so the way we've got
our code now, it's going to keep looping
until guess equals answer. So in other words,
when guess equals answer, the loop
will be exited.
So we've got a bit of tidying up to do,
starting with the warning on line
eight, and if we hover over that: name
guess can be not defined. So guess hasn't
been given a value yet, which means
we can't use its value in the condition.
So we can fix that by initializing
guess. Let's do that after printing
the answer - guess is equal to zero.
Basically here, we want to initialize it
to any number. I'll make a point of that,
a note of that, to any number that doesn't
equal the answer. Okay. So this is
working because we're not allowing zero
as a valid answer, so it's probably a good
value to use here. Alright so what next?
Well let's look on line 12. We're
checking to see if the answer's correct.
Now that we're allowing many guesses,
we're going to be doing that check each
time around the loop, and that means we
don't know if they got the correct
answer on the first guess, and therefore
the message is currently wrong. So what
I'm going to do is copy the text from
line 21 and replace it on
line 13. So come down here. I'm gonna
copy that line. I could copy the text or
the whole thing. I'll just copy the whole
line and put it there, like so. Alright, now
the other thing we need to do here, is if
they have got the correct answer, we
don't want to loop again. A break will
break out of the loop, so let's add that
after the print of Well done you guessed it,
like so. Alright, so we're almost
done at this point. Now we're getting the
players input on line 10. That means we
don't want to do it again, down here on
line 20. In fact, all the code from line
20 onwards, can effectively be deleted.
What I'll do now is I'll just comment
that out, and essentially that's our
solution, and basically, the code is
complete.
So let's actually test it, though, and see
if it works. What we're going to do is,
I'm going to run the program and confirm
that it keeps requesting guesses until
we get the correct answer. Alright so I know
the answer's four - I'm just going to type 7,
Please guess lower, 2, higher, 3.
Obviously it's working, and 4, Well done
you've guessed it. So clearly that's
working. So that's the solution, or our
solution. If your solution behaves in the
same way, then well done.
Now you may have written the code
differently. There's often several ways
to get the same results in almost any
programming code, you care to come up
with, so don't be worried if your code
looks different to ours. And if you
struggled to complete the challenge, also
don't worry - the important thing here was
to have a go. You'll find that my
solution makes more sense, if you tried
to solve the challenge yourself, first.
More importantly, perhaps you'll also
understand why, what you were trying,
didn't work.
Alright, now if you recall we had an
optional extra part of the challenge,
to check for zero, and break out of the loop
if zero was typed. Now we can do that by
adding an if block, after getting the
players input. Let's have a go of doing
that. So I'm gonna put that on line 12,
before the test for the correct answer,
and here I can go up and type if guess
is equal to zero : break. Alright, that's
the code. So that gives the player a way
to get out of the program, if they can't
guess the number. Now before testing that,
I'm gonna increase the range of numbers
they have to guess. Let's just test that
as well, and instead of making it 10, as
it currently is, I'm going to make that
1000. Run the program. Let's enter a few
guesses and we know what the correct answer is
- we'll say 500, Please guess higher, 750,
Please guess lower, 625. Okay that's enough.
Let's enter zero, and we can see we've successfully
exited the program when I entered zero.
Alright so that's the challenge
completed, including the optional extra
part as well. Now by the way, you should
be able to guess the correct number
within ten guesses. Now if you're not
sure how you can do that, I did allude
to it a little bit by the types of the
numbers that I was entering, but full
details will be disclosed in the next video.